Add contributor_path (#11)
ansible/community-docs: contributor_path.rst

****************
Contributor path
****************

..

  "There is no favorable wind for the sailor who doesn’t know where to go."

  -- Seneca

This guide describes a contributor path in scope of the Ansible project from the early beginning, through all the stages, to becoming a leader shaping the project's future and the future of automation in the IT world in general.

This path is not a policy but rather a suite of recommendations based on experience of successful contributors.

The goal of the path, first of all, is to make your activity more determined and efficient through understanding of what you can achieve and how. You can use this path as a roadmap for your long-term participation.

Any contribution to the project, even a small one, is very welcome and valuable. When you contribute regularly, your proficiency and judgement in the related area are increasing fast and, along with this, the importance of your presence in the project.

> Regular contribution makes you a member of the community and leads to respect of other community members. Do you respect people who give good to others? Do you respect people who help you as a user whose feature request was implemented or who help you as a programmer to finish your pull request?

Reviewer: "give good" doesn't work here. What's the message you want to get across? I could see:

- people who help others
- people who give their time to others
- people who respect others

There's probably more, but I'm guessing at what you're going for :)

Author: @GregSutcliffe I tried to use something short and meaningful but failed - this is really very broad, do you have any ideas?

Author: I changed it to "any improvements", is it better?

Author: changed to "any addition or positive change" almost like @acozine suggested in another PR. How does it feel now?

Reviewer: @Andersson007 we've misunderstood each other - I'me referring to the sentence "Do you respect people who give good to others?" on line 19, your last commits seem to change line 34?

Author: @GregSutcliffe ah.. hehe:) Ok, I'll change it. Anyway which one sounds better `any good` or `any addition or positive change` ?

Reviewer: For line 34? I think `positive change` is better, leave it as it is now. I think you've been a bit harsh on line 19 though, most of it is gone now - I just wanted to fix "give good", the overall message was fine :)

Author: Yeah, for line 34. Help of native speaker in such things is much appreciated, thanks!
I decided to get rid of those sentences on line 19 because the idea is obvious without them i think.

> Be persistent and act gradually. Great result is just a product of time and effort. Let's go then!

Reviewer: This feels slightly weird - you start with "take it slow" and end with "lets go!" :)

Perhaps "lets go then" could be "Here's how to get started" or something like that?

(This is a nitpick / style issue, you can disagree, of course :P)

Author: I like your wording, thanks for that! Changed

.. note::

   If you have any questions, feel free to reach out to the community in the ``#ansible-community`` `Libera.Chat <https://libera.chat/>`_ IRC channel. If you have ideas on how this document can be improved, please, share them through creating an issue or a pull request.

.. contents::

What is a contribution to an Open Source project
================================================

First, we should understand what a contribution to an Open Source project is.

> The contribution to an Open Source project is any positive addition or change given by an individual or a company to the project including increasing its functionality, improvements to the codebase, code developer experience, user experience, increasing the project's popularity and community, providing infrastructure, and any other kinds of active social or material support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Contributing to an Open Source project can be any positive addition, change or feedback given by an individual (or company) to the project. It includes increasing its functionality, improving the codebase as well as developer experience and user experience, promoting the project and participating in the community, providing infrastructure, and any kind of active social or material support.
```

Can't pretend to be a wordsmith. Does the above sound better ?

Author: I like it! Committed. I only left `The contribution to an Open Source project is any positive addition` (the part before the first comma) as it was because (IMO) when we define a notion, we should use the pattern `noun + is`, though I'm not an expert.
Thanks for the rephrasing!

Note that, according to the classification given in the `Contribution to an Open Source project guide <contribution_to_project.rst>`_, most types of contribution do not require programming skills.

Determine areas of your interests
=================================

First, determine areas that are interesting to you taking into consideration your current experience and experience you'd like to gain.

> There are some ideas about how you can contribute to the project listed in the `Contribution guide <contribution_to_project.rst>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are some ideas about how you can contribute to the project listed in the `Contribution guide <contribution_to_project.rst>_`.
```

Author: Good spot, thanks!

Determine the project
=====================

> The Ansible ecosystem consists of the following projects:

Reviewer 2: How is the ``Ansible ecosystem`` defined ? It feels worded in a way that potentially excludes projects that are otherwise listed here: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/other_tools_and_programs.html

If we don't mean to include an exhaustive list of projects here, we should say something along the lines of ``These are some of the Ansible community projects in the ecosystem you could contribute to:``

Author: Yes, definitely, there are more projects than listed.. And when i was writing the list I was thinking of some obvious. I'll change it, thanks!

  - `Ansible Core <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible-core/devel/index.html>`_
  - `Collections <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/collections_using.html>`_
  - `AWX <https://github.com/ansible/awx>`_
  - `Galaxy <https://galaxy.ansible.com/>`_
  - `Lint <https://ansible-lint.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_
  - `Molecule <https://molecule.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_

You can contribute to any of them.

Learn
=====

> The required skillset depends on the area of interest and the project chosen previously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The required skillset depends on the area of interest and the project you'll be working on.
```

Author: I like it, committed, thanks!

> Some of the `ways <contribution_to_project.rst>`_ to contribute do not require technical skills and some of them imply that you will invest time in learning.

Reviewer 2: This is a repeat from line 36. Is it necessary ?

Author: I wouldn't say this is literal repetition:) The goals of this sentence are:
- highlight once more that even if you're not a programmer, you can find an application for yourself in the project
But alright, let's get rid of this partial duplication:)

Knowledge required for programming
----------------------------------

> The area that requires technical knowledge the most is programming. Let's sort out what an Ansible programmer should learn.

Author: @dmsimard I like the term you're suggesting too but in this context it's broader than needed (IMO).

Fundamentals
~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you'd like to code Ansible, it would be good to understand at least *basics* of the following tools:

  - `Python programming language <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/>`_.
  - `Git <https://git-scm.com/docs/gittutorial>`_.
  - `GitHub collaborative development model through forks and pull requests <https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/getting-started/about-collaborative-development-models>`_.

Project-specific guidelines
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::

  You don't have to read the documentation mentioned below from cover to cover and memorize everything. It would be good to have general understanding of the workflow and what the documentation consists of to find information you need later when needed.

> If you feel confident with the fundamentals above, you should also be familiar with the guidelines specific to the project you chose.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you feel confident with the fundamentals above, you should also be familiar with the guidelines specific to the project you choose.
```

For example, for Ansible Core it is `Ansible development guidelines <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/dev_guide/index.html>`_.

> If you'd like to develop a collection, in addition to it, you should be also familiar with the `Ansible collection development guidelines <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/dev_guide/developing_collections.html>`_ and development documentation for a particular collection (references can usually be found in the ``README`` or ``CONTRIBUTING`` files in the `collection's repository <https://github.com/ansible-collections/>`_).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you'd like to develop a collection, you should be also familiar with the `Ansible collection development guidelines <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/dev_guide/developing_collections.html>`_ and development documentation for a particular collection (references can usually be found in the ``README`` or ``CONTRIBUTING`` files in the `collection's repository <https://github.com/ansible-collections/>`_).
```

> First contribution
> ==================
> 
> Do you first contribution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Doing your first contribution
=============================

```

Author: Yeah! Committed

> Again, you can find some ideas how you can contribute in the `Contribution guide <contribution_to_project.rst>` and the ``README`` / ``CONTRIBUTING`` files of `corresponding repositories <https://github.com/ansible-collections/>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find some ideas how you can contribute in the `Contribution guide <contribution_to_project.rst>` and the ``README`` / ``CONTRIBUTING`` files of `corresponding repositories <https://github.com/ansible-collections/>`_.
```

If the contribution you'd like to give implies technical skills, there can be also quick-start guides which can help.

For example, for collections, you can use the `Quick-start development guide <create_pr_quick_start_guide.rst>`_ to learn how to set up everything you need quickly, test your changes, and submit a pull request.

To make your first experience as smooth as possible, read the repository documentation carefully, then ask the repository maintainers for guidance if you have any questions.

> Also to look for issues labeled with the ``easyfix``, ``good_first_issue``, and ``docs`` labels can help find good issues to start with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Looking for issues labeled with the ``easyfix``, ``good_first_issue``, and ``docs`` labels can help find good issues to start with.
```

Author: Much better, thanks! Committed

Continue to contribute
======================

> As was said, when you contribute regularly, your proficiency and judgement in the related area are increasing fast and, along with this, the importance of your presence in the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you contribute regularly, your proficiency and judgment in the related area will improve quickly and, along with this, the importance of your presence in the project.
```

Author: I like your wording, thanks! Committed.

Communicate
===========

Join the channels
-----------------

Interact and share your ideas with other folks from the community following `Ansible Code of Conduct <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/code_of_conduct.html>`_.

You can find available communication channels in the `Communication guide <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/communication.html>`_.

The most interactive one is on Libera.Chat IRC where many Ansible projects and working groups have dedicated `channels <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/communication.html#irc-channels>`.

Weekly community IRC meetings

> -----------------------------

Reviewer 2: It would be a good opportunity to include the core and docs meeting here as well.

Author: Agreed! Added, thanks!

Get the triage access
---------------------

Get the ``triage`` access to the repository that allows contributors manage issues and pull requests.

Get the write access
--------------------

Get the ``write`` access to the repository also known as ``commit``. In other words, become a committer.

This access level allows contributors to merge pull requests to the development branch as well as perform all the other activities listed in the `Maintainer guidelines <maintaining.rst>`_.

For information about permission levels, refer to the `GitHub official documentation <https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/repository-permission-levels-for-an-organization>`_.

Become a steering committee member
==================================

.. note::

  You do NOT have to be a programmer to become a steering committee member.

The steering committee member status reflects the highest level of trust which allows contributors to lead the project through making very important `decisions <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics/issues>`_ of the Ansible project scope.

> The committee members are the community leaders who, as was said, shape the project's future and the future of automation in the IT world in general.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The committee members are the community leaders who shape the project's future and the future of automation in the IT world in general.
```

****************
Contributor path
****************

..

  "There is no favorable wind for the sailor who doesn’t know where to go."

  -- Seneca

This guide describes a contributor path in scope of the Ansible project from the early beginning, through all the stages, to becoming a leader shaping the project's future and the future of automation in the IT world in general.

This path is not a policy but rather a suite of recommendations based on experience of successful contributors.

The goal of the path, first of all, is to make your activity more determined and efficient through understanding of what you can achieve and how. You can use this path as a roadmap for your long-term participation.

> Any contribution to the project, even a small one, is very welcome and valuable. When you contribute regularly, your proficiency and judgement in the related area are increasing fast and, along with this, the importance of your presence in the project.

Author: Added, PTAL

.. note::

   If you have any questions, feel free to reach out to the community in the ``#ansible-community`` `Libera.Chat <https://libera.chat/>`_ IRC channel. If you have ideas on how this document can be improved, please, share them through creating an issue or a pull request.

.. contents::

What is a contribution to an Open Source project
================================================

First, we should understand what a contribution to an Open Source project is.

The contribution to an Open Source project is any positive addition, change or feedback given by an individual (or company) to the project. It includes increasing its functionality, improving the codebase as well as developer experience and user experience, promoting the project and participating in the community, providing infrastructure, and any kind of active social or material support.

Note that, according to the classification given in the `Contribution to an Open Source project guide <contribution_to_project.rst>`_, most types of contribution do not require programming skills.

Determine areas of your interests
=================================

> First, determine areas that are interesting to you taking into consideration your current experience and experience you'd like to gain.

Author: Sounds good to me. Added, thanks!

There are some ideas about how you can contribute to the project listed in the `Contribution guide <contribution_to_project.rst>`_.

Determine the project
=====================

These are some of the community projects in the Ansible ecosystem you could contribute to:

  - `Ansible Core <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible-core/devel/index.html>`_
  - `Collections <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/collections_using.html>`_
  - `AWX <https://github.com/ansible/awx>`_
  - `Galaxy <https://galaxy.ansible.com/>`_
  - `Lint <https://ansible-lint.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_
  - `Molecule <https://molecule.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_

Learn
=====

> The required skillset depends on the area of interest and the project you'll be working on.

Author: Yes but it would be nice if people learn some basics before (or during) starting. So i think it's worth mentioning this fundamentals.

> The required skillset depends on the area of interest and the project you'll be working on.

Author: I added the sentence you mentioned to the `Learn` section and then
`You can learn these tools in parallel when working on your first contributions.` below the list of the tools in `Fundamentals`.
Does it make sense?

Knowledge required for programming
----------------------------------

The area that requires technical knowledge the most is programming. Let's sort out what an Ansible programmer should learn.

Fundamentals
~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you'd like to write code for the Ansible project, it would be good to understand at least *basics* of the following tools:

  - `Python programming language <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/>`_.
  - `Git <https://git-scm.com/docs/gittutorial>`_.

>   - `GitHub collaborative development model through forks and pull requests <https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/getting-started/about-collaborative-development-models>`_.

Author: ah, thanks! will fix other stuff

Doing your first contribution
=============================

You can find some ideas how you can contribute in the `Contribution guide <contribution_to_project.rst>` and the ``README`` / ``CONTRIBUTING`` files of `corresponding repositories <https://github.com/ansible-collections/>`_.

If the contribution you'd like to give implies technical skills, there can be also quick-start guides which can help.

For example, for collections, you can use the `Quick-start development guide <create_pr_quick_start_guide.rst>`_ to learn how to set up everything you need quickly, test your changes, and submit a pull request.

To make your first experience as smooth as possible, read the repository documentation carefully, then ask the repository maintainers for guidance if you have any questions.

Looking for issues labeled with the ``easyfix``, ``good_first_issue``, and ``docs`` labels can help find good issues to start with.

Continue to contribute
======================

> When you contribute regularly, your proficiency and judgment in the related area will improve quickly and, along with this, the importance of your presence in the project.

Author: I like this addition:)

IRC meetings
------------

The important project-scale decisions are made by the community and the Steering Committee at weekly IRC meetings in the ``#ansible-community`` Libera.Chat IRC channel.

If you want to see what is on the agenda, refer to the issues in the `community-topics repository <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics>`_. If you want to submit a topic, create an issue in the repository.

The other important Libera.Chat IRC meetings impacting the whole project which you can join are:

  - the Ansible Core IRC meeting in the ``ansible-meeting`` channel.
  - the Documentation working group IRC meeting in the ``ansible-docs`` channel.

See the `meeting schedule <https://github.com/ansible/community/blob/main/meetings/README.md#schedule>`_.

The Bullhorn newsletter
-----------------------

Subscribe to `The Bullhorn newsletter <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/communication.html#the-bullhorn>`_ which is released biweekly and contains brief news important for the Ansible developer community.

Contributor summit
------------------

> Take part and meet other contributors in the global quarterly `Ansible Contributor Summit <https://github.com/ansible/community/wiki/Contributor-Summit>`_ virtually or in-person.

Reviewer 3: Subscribe to The Bullhorn to know when these take place

Author: Added, thanks!

Teach others
============

Share your experience with other contributors through `improving documentation <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/community/documentation_contributions.html>`_ on the doc site and in repositories, answering question from them on IRC, giving advice in issues and pull requests, and discussing the `community meeting topics <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics>`_.

Become a maintainer
===================

If you are a code contributor, you can get extended permissions in the repository and become a maintainer.

For more information about the collection maintenance, requirements, and nomination process, refer to the `Maintainer guidelines <maintaining.rst>`_.

Become a file maintainer
------------------------

> 

Reviewer 3: I wonder if some context could help for the following sections on different levels of maintainer status.

1. What is a maintainer
2. Why should you become one
3. How you can become one

Author: Added a few thoughts about what is a maintainer and about their importance.
There's also the link to maintaining.rst where things are explained in details.

.. contents::

What is a contribution to an Open Source project
================================================

First, we should understand what a contribution to an Open Source project is.

The contribution to an Open Source project is any good given by an individual or a company to the project including increasing its functionality, improvements of the codebase, code developer experience, user experience, increasing the project's popularity and community, providing infrastructure, and any other kinds of active social or material support.

Note that, according to the classification given in the `Contribution to an Open Source project guide <contribution_to_project.rst>`_, most types of contribution to an Open Source project do not require programming skills.

Determine areas of your interests
=================================

Learn
=====

First contribution
==================

Continue to contribute
======================

Communicate
===========

Remember to mention the CoC.

Share your ideas.

Participate in IRC discussions and the weekly community meetings.

Stay persistent
===============

Learn
=====

Get extended permissions
========================

> Become a maintainer

Reviewer 3: There are a few different things here

1. Maintainer (BOTMETA)
2. Someone with `write`
3. Collection owner

Though maybe it's `1` then `2&3`?

Author: Sounds good! Will add, thanks!

The most interactive one is on Libera.Chat IRC where many Ansible projects and working groups have dedicated `channels <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/communication.html#irc-channels>`.

IRC meetings
------------

The important project-scale decisions are made by the community and the Steering Committee at weekly IRC meetings in the ``#ansible-community`` Libera.Chat IRC channel.

If you want to see what is on the agenda, refer to the issues in the `community-topics repository <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics>`_. If you want to submit a topic, create an issue in the repository.

The other important Libera.Chat IRC meetings impacting the whole project which you can join are:

>   - the Ansible Core IRC meeting in the ``ansible-core`` channel.

Reviewer 2: No such thing as an ansible-core channel, the core meetings are in #ansible-meeting as far as I know.

Author: yeah, i mixed it up with `ansible-devel` but it's not true also:) Fixed, thanks!
